# Augmentation Methods for Data Augmentation
This project offers a collection of data augmentation techniques tailored for text data. All augmentation methods are implemented in `augment.py`, while `runner.py` serves as a usage example, demonstrating how to apply these techniques effectively. Although our primary use case involves augmenting datasets in Bahnaric and Vietnamese, the framework is language-agnostic and can be applied to various language.

## Getting started
Install the dependencies using pip:

```bash
pip install requirements.txt
```

You must prepare a input file (in type of .csv) with 2 cols: lang_source and lang_target. \
You must also prepare a theme file (in type of .csv) with 3 cols: lang_source, lang_target, pos if applying methods 3, 4 or 5. \
We provide 7 different augmentation methods:

### 1. CombineSentences
Combines sentences from the dataset in pairs to create new sentences.

### 2. SwapSentences
Swaps sentences within the same paragraph to create new variations.

### 3. ReplaceWithSameThemes
Replaces words in the sentences with other words of the same thematic labels from a dictionary such as human, animal, food, occupations, location, etc.

### 4. ReplaceWithSameSynonyms
Replaces words with synonyms that have similar *part-of-speech* (POS) tags to improve sentence semantics.

### 5. RandomInsertion
Randomly inserts words before the ending word, selecting words with thematic similarity (e.g., location or time references).

### 6. RandomDeletion
Randomly deletes words from the sentences to create shorter variations.

### 7. SlidingWindows
Generates new sentences by applying a sliding window of a specified size over the original sentences.

## Configuration

The configuration for the augmentation methods is defined at the beginning of `runner.py` in the configuration zone:

- `LANG_SOURCE`: Source language code (e.g., 'Bahnarist').
- `LANG_TARGET`: Target language code (e.g., 'Vietnamese').
- `INPUT_PATH`: Path to the input CSV file containing the sentences.
- `DICTIONARY_PATH`: Path to the dictionary CSV file.
- `LIMIT_NEW_SENTENCES`: Limit for new sentences generated by `ReplaceWithSameType`.
- `BATCH_SIZE`: Batch size for the `Combine` method.
- `NUM_INSERTIONS`: Number of insertions for `RandomInsertion`.
- `MAX_LINES_GENERATED`: Maximum lines generated by `RandomInsertion`.
- `NUM_DELETIONS`: Number of deletions for `RandomDeletion`.
- `WINDOW_SIZE`: Window size for `SlidingWindows`.
- `METHOD_NUMS`: Select the augmentation method to run:
  - `1`: Combine sentences
  - `2`: Swap sentences
  - `3`: Replace with same themes
  - `4`: Replace with synonyms
  - `5`: Random insertion
  - `6`: Random deletion
  - `7`: Sliding windows

## Usage

To run the augmentation methods, specify the `METHOD_NUMS` in the `runner.py`, then execute that script:

```bash
python runner.py
```

The script will generate augmented data and save the results to the `output` directory.
